gui/EN/tools/maps.md, before:

# Map View

# Map View

## Available Display Modes

### contour, plane
This is an interactive slice of the map in the plane of the screen. The molecule can be rotated and also zoomed through this plane. This is done by holding down the **SHIFT** key while dragging the left mouse key on the area of the map or using the depth slider. The visible area of the map can be adjusted with the size slider, or by holding down the **Ctrl** key whilst dragging the right mouse key. Finally, the levels can be adjusted with the **SHIFT** key and right mouse key. In contour mode, the number of contours can be altered with the contours slider. Positive electron density is displayed as solid lines, whilst negative electron density (holes) are displayed as dashed lines. A contour map will be included in any postscript drawing created whilst the map is displayed.

### surface, wire, point
These are all three dimensional displays of the electron density. However, the 3D display will only work if there is enough electron density to display, otherwise the 2D display will the shown. It is a good idea to start adjusting the levels in the points view, and only then to select wire or surface for a graphically more demanding display. Negative values of electron density (holes) will be displayed in a reddish colour. The extended mode will extend the grid to an array of 27 (3 x 3 x 3) unit cells.

### Extended
Will extend the map display out from the unit cell.

### Edit Style
Edits the colour of the various map surfaces.

### Select Volume
A box with moveable sides will appear. Left-click on the coloured areas and then move the sides while pressing the **SHIFT** key. The map will be calculated only inside the defined box. You can delete the box by right-clicking on it and select 'Hide'.

### Level
When a map is displayed the slider bar enables you to adjust the detail shown in the map.

# Calculate Voids

# Calculate Voids
Calculates the voids and channels in the structure. This calculation is based on the Olex2 internal libraries, and help is available from

|`help calcvoid`| |

# Calculate Solvent Accessible Voids

# Calculate Solvent Accessible Voids
|`calcsolv`|Calculates the solvent accessible voids. This calculation is based on the smtbx/cctbx Olex2 libraries. |


Calculates voids that are large enough to contain solvent. Probe/&Aring; adjusts the probe size (think of it as a 'sphere' rolling about the structure - a smaller sphere will fit into smaller gaps and therefore return a larger void than a larger sphere would). The Grid/ANGST is the resolution of the map that will be explored when calculating the voids. If the resolution is too high, the calculation might take a Very Long Time at not much benefit. Click on Void to toggle between displaying and not displaying solvent accessible voids. On the graphics screen the size of any solvent accessible voids that are found will be displayed.

# masks-help

# Masks
The Masks option serves as an alternative to SQUEEZE which is implemented in Platon !!!More Info Online!!!. These sorts of approaches should only be used when the solvent can't be identified or modelled, effort should be made to try and identify or model solvent. If refinement has been attempted using both ShelXL and olex2.refine the option to select either olex or an fcf files, ensure that the file from the last cycle of refinement is used.

# 2D Map Contours

Selects the number of colours and maximum number of contour lines (depending on contour, plane or contour+plane).<br>
~Hint:~ If you want symmetrical maps around 0 you would select e.g. 21 contours, so 10 will be above 0, 10 below and 1 is for 0 itself. 

# 2D Map Scale

This option controls the static Map settings.

# 2D Static Map Scale

## Min

This will define the minimum value of your map. The slider works in quarter-integer values but also accepts manual input in the text-box next to it.

## Step

This will define the step size between two contours/colours. As with **Min** this slider has pre-defined slider values (difference 0.02), but also manual input will work.

# 2D Map Position and Size

## Depth

This slider controls the depth of the plane "into" the screen. If the value is negative the map will go "behind" the model, positive will move it to the front.<br>
If you select atoms and click on the **Depth** button the map will be aligned so the map is in plane with these selected atoms.

## Size

Size will control the size of the plotted plane. Bigger values will decrease the visual size, but will increase the resultion of the map.

Commit message:

Edited Maps tool tab help text

gui/EN/tools/maps.md, after:

# Map View

# Map View

## Available Display Modes
The **plane**, **contour**, **surface**, **wire**, and **points** options are different viewing styles available for displaying maps and masks in Olex2.

### contour, plane
These two views show an interactive 2D slice of the map in the plane of the screen. The structure can be rotated, moved or zoomed while the map is displayed, and the 2D slice will change accordingly as different portions of the structure pass through the plane.
<br>
<br>

To move the map perpendicular to the screen (i.e., into or out of the screen), hold down the <c>Shift</c>' key while dragging the left mouse button on the map or use the **Depth** slider bar.

The visible area of the map can be adjusted with the size slider, or by holding down the **Ctrl** key whilst dragging the right mouse key. Finally, the levels can be adjusted with the **SHIFT** key and right mouse key. In contour mode, the number of contours can be altered with the contours slider. Positive electron density is displayed as solid lines, whilst negative electron density (holes) are displayed as dashed lines. A contour map will be included in any postscript drawing created whilst the map is displayed.

### surface, wire, points
These are all three dimensional displays of the electron density. However, the 3D display will only work if there is enough electron density to display, otherwise the 2D display will the shown. It is a good idea to start adjusting the levels in the points view, and only then to select wire or surface for a graphically more demanding display. Negative values of electron density (holes) will be displayed in a reddish colour.

## Extended
Ticking this box will extend the map display out from one unit cell to 27 (3 x 3 x 3) adjacent unit cells. This is very useful for viewing the shapes, sizes, and distribution of voids in the structure.

### Edit Style
Edits the colour of the various map surfaces.

### Select Volume
A box with moveable sides will appear. Left-click on the coloured areas and then move the sides while pressing the **SHIFT** key. The map will be calculated only inside the defined box. You can delete the box by right-clicking on it and select 'Hide'.

### Level
When a map is displayed the slider bar enables you to adjust the detail shown in the map.

# Calculate Voids

# Calculate Voids
Calculates the voids and channels in the structure. This calculation is based on the Olex2 internal libraries, and help is available from

|`help calcvoid`| |

# Calculate Solvent Accessible Voids

# Calculate Solvent Accessible Voids
|`calcsolv`|Calculates the solvent accessible voids. This calculation is based on the smtbx/cctbx Olex2 libraries. |


Calculates voids that are large enough to contain solvent. Probe/&Aring; adjusts the probe size (think of it as a 'sphere' rolling about the structure - a smaller sphere will fit into smaller gaps and therefore return a larger void than a larger sphere would). The Grid/ANGST is the resolution of the map that will be explored when calculating the voids. If the resolution is too high, the calculation might take a Very Long Time at not much benefit. Click on Void to toggle between displaying and not displaying solvent accessible voids. On the graphics screen the size of any solvent accessible voids that are found will be displayed.

# masks-help

# Masks
The Masks option serves as an alternative to SQUEEZE which is implemented in Platon !!!More Info Online!!!. These sorts of approaches should only be used when the solvent can't be identified or modelled, effort should be made to try and identify or model solvent. If refinement has been attempted using both ShelXL and olex2.refine the option to select either olex or an fcf files, ensure that the file from the last cycle of refinement is used.

# 2D Map Contours

Selects the number of colours and maximum number of contour lines (depending on contour, plane or contour+plane).<br>
~Hint:~ If you want symmetrical maps around 0 you would select e.g. 21 contours, so 10 will be above 0, 10 below and 1 is for 0 itself. 

# 2D Map Scale

This option controls the static Map settings.

# 2D Static Map Scale

## Min

This will define the minimum value of your map. The slider works in quarter-integer values but also accepts manual input in the text-box next to it.

## Step

This will define the step size between two contours/colours. As with **Min** this slider has pre-defined slider values (difference 0.02), but also manual input will work.

# 2D Map Position and Size

## Depth

This slider controls the depth of the plane "into" the screen. If the value is negative the map will go "behind" the model, positive will move it to the front.<br>
If you select atoms and click on the **Depth** button the map will be aligned so the map is in plane with these selected atoms.

## Size

Size will control the size of the plotted plane. Bigger values will decrease the visual size, but will increase the resultion of the map.
