gui/EN/work/solve.md, before:

# solve-target
Solve the structure


# Solution Program
If particular solution programs are installed in a standard way on your system, Olex2 will find them and they will appear automatically as a choice in the Program drop-down menu. If they don't appear, please make sure that the directory where they are installed is either on the System Path, or has been entered under **Home > Settings > Path**. Ilia Guzei's manual, linked in the Start tool tab under the Home tab, gives detailed instructions for the installation of solution programs.

## Choice of Programs
Olex2 can make use of many structure solution programs such as

  - **ShelXT**
  - ShelXS
  - ShelXD
  - olex2.solve
  - SuperFlip
  - Sir2011
  - Sir2008

## Solution Method
Select the method you want to use for the structure solution program you have selected. This is only really relevant for **ShelXS** -- all other programs only have one solution method!


# Chemical Formula
The expected chemical composition for the structure. The presence of heavy atoms in the expected composition when they are not actually present in the structure can adversely affect some structure solution programs. Likewise, omitting a heavy atom from the expected composition when one is actually present in the structure can also cause problems in structure solution.


# Z
*Z* denotes the number of formula units in the UNIT CELL.

## What is this about?
For molecular compounds *Z* is just the number of full molecules in the unit cell. For continuous solids and structures that need to be 'grown' it is less easy to determine this number, but it is generally the number of formula units in the unit cell. <br>**Note**: The closely related parameter *Z*' (*Z* prime) denotes the number of formula units in the asymmetric unit.


# Space-Group-help


# Space Group
Usually, you will have determined the space group during data processing.

## Suggest SG
|`sg`|Olex2 can also determine the space group. Press the 'Suggest SG' link and the most likely choices will appear in the drop-down box on the right. You can type 'text' to see the full output of the data analysis.|

You can also type any space group into the box - when leaving the box, your structure will be set up ready to solve in that new space group.


# Solution Settings Extra
TBI


# Reflections
This is now taken from refine.md
## hkl
This is now taken from refine.md
## Other Formats
This is now taken from refine.md

Commit message:

Major edits to space group help text

gui/EN/work/solve.md, after:

# solve-target
Solve the structure


# Solution Program
If particular solution programs are installed in a standard way on your system, Olex2 will find them and they will appear automatically as a choice in the Program drop-down menu. If they don't appear, please make sure that the directory where they are installed is either on the System Path, or has been entered under **Home > Settings > Path**. Ilia Guzei's manual, linked in the Start tool tab under the Home tab, gives detailed instructions for the installation of solution programs.

## Choice of Programs
Olex2 can make use of many structure solution programs such as

  - **ShelXT**
  - ShelXS
  - ShelXD
  - olex2.solve
  - SuperFlip
  - Sir2011
  - Sir2008

## Solution Method
Select the method you want to use for the structure solution program you have selected. This is only really relevant for **ShelXS** -- all other programs only have one solution method!


# Chemical Formula
The expected chemical composition for the structure. The presence of heavy atoms in the expected composition when they are not actually present in the structure can adversely affect some structure solution programs. Likewise, omitting a heavy atom from the expected composition when one is actually present in the structure can also cause problems in structure solution.


# Z
*Z* denotes the number of formula units in the UNIT CELL.

## What is this about?
For molecular compounds *Z* is just the number of full molecules in the unit cell. For continuous solids and structures that need to be 'grown' it is less easy to determine this number, but it is generally the number of formula units in the unit cell. <br>**Note**: The closely related parameter *Z*' (*Z* prime) denotes the number of formula units in the asymmetric unit.


# Space-Group-help


# Space Group
The space group is usually determined during data acquisition and processing.

## Suggest SG
|`sg`| Olex2 can also determine the space group. Click **Suggest SG** and the most likely choices will appear in the drop-down menu on the right. Type 'text', if necessary, to open a text file containing the full output of the space group likelihood analysis. Select a space group from the drop-down menu before proceeding to refinement. |

It is also possible to type a space group directly into the menu box. Upon leaving the box, the structure will be ready for solution in the specified space group.


# Solution Settings Extra
Some solution programs may have associated extra settings not available through the GUI; these extra settings may be specified here. 


# Reflections
This is now taken from refine.md
## hkl
This is now taken from refine.md
## Other Formats
This is now taken from refine.md
