gui/EN/home/start.md, before:

# start-target
Start here!
- Sample Structures
- Open Existing File
- Links to more help
"
# Open a Structure
**Olex2** can read many different crystallographic file formats. When  you are workin"g with a crystal structure, the most common way to get into it is by opening a **.ins** file. Typically, a **.hkl** file of the same filename would have been created by your data processing software at the same time. If this pair of files is present in your data folder, you are all set to go.

## Navigate
You can navigate to a file by clicking on the **Open** link under the Start tool, or by using **File > Open** from the menu bar at the top of Olex2.

## Drag and Drop
Alternatively, you can drag and drop any recognised file into Olex2. This file will then be opened, and the current directory will be set to the one where the file was dragged from.

## Command Line

|`reap`|Open a file via the file browser. This command can be followed by a filename: **reap sucrose.ins**, for example. |

# Sample Structures
We provide some sample structures for you to experiment with. These sample structures are copied into your Olex2 user area on start-up. If you delete the them, they will come back in their original state on restart.

## Sucrose URL[https://youtu.be/8QvmKSnJFPs,YOUTUBE]
This very simple structure of sucrose (from our coffee room...) is an ideal structure to get started with.

## THPP URL[https://youtu.be/Ruwyh3xmBME,YOUTUBE] URL[https://youtu.be/Gm7KWPDFRUw,YOUTUBE]
An example of a simple disordered structure.

## Co110
A simple transition element complex of Co with two identical ligands.

## ZP2
A structure with Z' = 2.

## Water
A metal complex with bound water molecules and one molecule of water of hydration.

## Malbac URL[https://youtu.be/3jC2CVqSkgc, YOUTUBE]
A molecule of tolune across a symmetry element. This is a good example to practice solvent masking, adding molecules with the FragmentDB and also to create such a solvent from scratch.

##Timmy
A continuous solid: Calcium Tartrate.

# Documentation
We are in the process of getting all Olex2 documentation into a unified format. In the meantime, we apologize for the slightly haphazard state of our documentation.

## Inline Help
Since you are reading this, you have found the little info symbols. All tools should now have one of these help links. This is your first port of call if you are stuck.

## Help Document
We also provided a help document, which is shipped with this version of Olex2 and is linked on the GUI.

## Online Help
An increasing amount of online help is also available. Please try out a Google Search, and you will find a lot of third-party material about Olex2.

Commit message:

Minor changes to help for "Start" tool tab

gui/EN/home/start.md, after:

# start-target
Start here!
- Sample Structures
- Open Existing File
- Links to more help
"
# Open a Structure
**Olex2** can read many different crystallographic file formats. When  you are workin"g with a crystal structure, the most common way to get into it is by opening a **.ins** file. Typically, a **.hkl** file of the same filename would have been created by your data processing software at the same time. If this pair of files is present in your data folder, you are all set to go.

## Navigate
You can navigate to a file by clicking on the **Open** link under the Start tool, or by using **File > Open** from the menu bar at the top of Olex2.

## Drag and Drop
Alternatively, you can drag and drop any recognised file into Olex2. This file will then be opened, and the current directory will be set to the one where the file was dragged from.

## Command Line

|`reap`|Open a file via the file browser. This command can be followed by a filename: **reap sucrose.ins**, for example. |

# Sample Structures
We provide some sample structures for you to experiment with. These sample structures are copied into your Olex2 user area on start-up. If you delete them, they will come back in their original state on restart.

## Sucrose URL[https://youtu.be/8QvmKSnJFPs,YOUTUBE]
This very simple structure of sucrose (from our coffee room...) is an ideal structure to get started with.

## THPP URL[https://youtu.be/Ruwyh3xmBME,YOUTUBE] URL[https://youtu.be/Gm7KWPDFRUw,YOUTUBE]
An example of a simple disordered structure.

## Co110
A simple coordination complex of Co with two identical ligands.

## ZP2
A structure with *Z'* = 2.

## Water
A metal complex with bound water molecules and one molecule of water of hydration.

## Malbac URL[https://youtu.be/3jC2CVqSkgc, YOUTUBE]
A molecule of toluene across a symmetry element. This is a good example to practice solvent masking, adding molecules with the FragmentDB tool and also to create such a solvent in the structure model from scratch.

##Timmy
A continuous solid: Calcium tartrate.

# Documentation
We are in the process of getting all Olex2 documentation into a unified format. In the meantime, we apologize for the slightly haphazard state of our documentation.

## Inline Help
Since you are reading this, you have found the little info symbols. All tools should now have one of these help links. This is your first port of call if you are stuck.

## Help Document
We have also provided a help document, which is shipped with this version of Olex2 and is linked on the GUI.

## Online Help
An increasing amount of online help is also available. Please try out a Google Search, and you will find a lot of third-party material about Olex2.
